Javascript: Javascript is a client side programming language which is used to make websites more interactive and functional.

when an application is built, it contains three layers
    i.e., client, server, database

JS can also do server side called nodejs but we focus here on client side

Javascript is synchronous and single threaded language. AS it is purely based on browsers for client side, it can use browser developer tools

1995,december 4 - Breden Eich at netscape navigator company. initially it is named as "LIVESCRIPT". it is later changed as "javascript" to gain popularity similar to JAVA

How to include JS into HTML?
  we can include JS into HTML using two ways
  i. internal
  ii. External

i. internal Javascript : Here, we can write the JS code between 'script' element like
   <script>
      console.log("hello world");
   </script>

JS code can be executed in Browsers because Browsers contain JS Engine. For Google Chrome, JS Engine is "V8"

ii. External Javascript: We can write js code in .js file and can connect to html using script tag with "src" attribute

//HTML
   <script src="./script.js"></script>

//JS
   console.log("hello world")


Variables in Javascript: variables are used to store a value. In JS, we can do this using three keywords var, let and const
var:  var is a function scoped variable which is used to declare variables and it can be redeclared, reassigned and can even used before declaration
let :  let is a block scoped variable which can be reassigned but cannot be redeclared . block scoped variables cannot be used before initalization also
const : const is also block scoped variable which cannot be redeclared or reassigned. it cannot be accesses before initalization
In 2015, JS released new version called "ES6"(ECMASCRIPT6). it starts let and const . The latest version released on JUNE 2025 is ES16

Browsers also Provide Default methods like
alert(msg) -- it is used to print an alert
confirm(question) -- it is used to ask user a confirmation
prompt(msg) -- it is used to accept input from user

Datatypes in JS:
    JS follows dynamic data typing. The Datatype of a variable is determined based on the value it holds. if the value is not provided at the time of declaration . it is considered as 'undefined'
    JS Datatypes are divided as two types
    i. primitive data types: These Datatypes stores the value 
       eg: number, string, boolean, undefined, null
    ii. non-primitive Datatypes: these Datatypes usually stores multiple values and refer to an address. These are also reference data types
    eg: arrays, objects, functions

     In JS, we can change one datatype to another datatype called "Type Conversion" or "Type Casting". There are two ways of type Casting
     i. implicit type Casting
     ii. explicit type Casting

     i. implicit type casting: here datatypes are automatically converted based on operations
     eg: "5"+4 ----> "54"
          "5"-4 ----> 1
     ii. explicit type casting: here datatypes are converted using external methods/operators
     eg : +"5" + 4 ---->9
          parseInt("5")+4 ---->94














